Now we have the idea of redirects inside of application.
There's one other place where we need to make use of redirects quite liberally.
So recall that we had said originally that a user should not be able to access this administration panel
unless they have signed into our application.
We don't have any check like that right now inside of our app.
So at present anyone can come to these different product listing pages like admin slash products admin
products new they can create new products view all the products we have edit and eventually delete them
as well.
Eventually added as well we even put that functionality together just yet.
So we need to make sure that inside of all these different root handlers we add in some code to make
sure that a user is signed into our application before we allow them to see all this different content
like all of our index are new and so on.
The first we have to establish is how we check to see if a user is signed in at all to check that.
Recall that inside of our roots admin update J.S. file whenever a user signed up to our application.
We defined the rect session dot user I.D. property and we assign the user I.D. to that property.
We did the same thing inside of sine and down here as well.
So here's the sign and route after user signs in.
We set up that property.
Remember rect session is an object that eventually gets stored on the user's cookie.
So every single time a user makes a followup request.
We will always see red dot session dot user I.D. if the user is signed in and finally whenever user
signs out here throughout handler for that remember we clear the red dot session object entirely So
in short in order to make sure that a user is signed in before they can access admin slash products
the new form or submit that form.
We need to double check and make sure that the REC not session that user I.D. Property is defined so
let's add in some code to manually do that for all three of these handlers.
First start off at admin slash products.
I'll say if not rec not session that user I.D. then let's return early and we will do a redirect back
to the sign in page.
Now we essentially want that same logic in all three of these request handlers so I can copy that statement
right there.
Paste it into the second one and then paste it into the third one as well.
Now as soon as I do that we're once again in a scenario where we're seeing some really heavy code duplication
between these three different root handlers.
And remember internally we see code duplication between our handlers.
That's always a sign that we need to create a middleware function.
So what we have right here works.
It is good but we're going to want to do some code reuse instead.
So we're going to extract that if statement into a very simple middleware I'm going to find my roots
admin middleware Scott J.S. file.
We've already got one middleware put together inside of here.
So we're going to create another middleware right underneath it that we will call require off
the arguments to our middleware function are going to be req rez.
And next you'll notice that the arguments we have right here are a little bit different than the ones
we had up here.
The reason that we had this template function up here and the reason that we were eventually returning
a function from this one is that we wanted to make sure that we can kind of customize this handle errors
middleware differently for every different root handler.
Remember we wanted to throw in that different template function each time.
So that's why this one was returning a function.
It's because we wanted to customize the middleware.
In this case we require off there is no customization required whatsoever.
So we're just going to pass a reference to this require auth function to serve the purpose of our middleware
and inside of here we'll do our check for the session or some of the user I.D. property.
If it's not defined we're going to redirect the user back to that sign in roots inside of here.
We'll say if not rec not session not user I.D. So there is no user I.D. present then we need to return
early and we'll do a resort redirect back to the sign in securing then otherwise if we get past that
check we will call the next malware instead or something.
The next function remember the next function is essentially a sign that everything inside of our middleware
went through correctly.
It all worked out just fine.
So we want to continue on and run the next middleware or run our root handler or whatever else okay.
So now we've got this together.
Let's save this file.
We'll go back to product start J.S. I'm going to find the three if statements that we just put together
and delete each of them
so there's all three deleted and now at the top this file we can find where we already have a require
statement from middle.
And in addition to getting the handle errors middleware also get the require auth middleware as well.
Then I'll take that middleware and I listed in each of these different root handlers.
So I'll say as the second argument require off and again notice that I am not invoking it here because
we don't want to run require authors right away.
We want to provide a function to this root handler.
So this root handler can call that function at some future point in time with the request response and
next functions we can do that with the same one second one as well.
And then finally the third one as well.
And then in this case we've got a couple of existing Middleware is inside of here.
So it kind of turns into a question of when we want to start to check to see if there actually is user
signed in.
We probably want to make sure that a user is signed in before we start to even think about allowing
them to upload a file.
So gonna make sure they put require off as the first middleware in this chain.
That's gonna make sure that a user is signed in before we start the image upload process.
If they're not signed in then hey get out of here.
Don't give us a file or anything like that it's let's save this and we can do a very quick test.
I'm going to first go to sign out to make sure that I'm not signed into the application so now logged
out I'll then go to admin slash products loops products.
There we go.
And I get automatically redirected back to sign in so I can also go to product slash new whoops Advent
products new I that I get redirected back to sign it again.
But now if we actually sign in
now I should be able to navigate to all these different pages.
So now I can go to admin product successfully and I can go to admin products new successfully aswell.
OK so very good.
Looks like it's all working out.
That's definitely another good step forward.
Let's pause right here and continue in just a moment.